# Lockdown!

What a great opportunity to catch up with deep learning.

I found the fastai site about one month ago and I have worked through the first part fairly thoroughly. The first thing I would say is to thank Jeremy Howard and Rachel Thomas for what can only be described as a truly outstanding project.

Although as my username suggests, I am some sort of judge, I have a technical background and have continued to dabble with computers and electronics over the years. I did the Hinton course on deep learning about one year ago and that was also excellent in terms of content and the number of insights. However, although I had several ideas on how that could all be used, I never had the commitment to implement anything substantial.

Fastai has changed all that. Not only has it shown me how to apply the theory, but it is a great pedagogical work and an effective paradigm for software development. I asked myself how this course could be so good and I think the answer came at the end of the seventh lecture when Jeremy showed his way of working by ordering us to "just finish something. Finish something and then try make it a bit better."

Finishing things has always been my problem. Photography, wine, statistics, linear algebra, diy in three countries with a fourth on the horizon, woodwork, metalwork, electrics, plumbing, car restauration, self-balancing beam, self-balancing bike, model aircraft, cooking, guitar... You name it, I've started it. Only very few of my friends realise that I do finish some things; cases at work and courses that I give.

Fastai has given me the incentive to finish something else - a deep learning project. As Jeremy said, any kind of project. Of course, I had many ideas straight away, but nothing that had the potential to be finished in my hands. I want to use this blog to chart my progress on a specific project. I will inevitably stray into philosophical contemplations that are not strictly unnecessary, like why we need managers or the intrinsic usefulness of colleagues who watch Netflix in suburbia, but by and large it will be technical.

I notice that a lot of blogs simply regurgitate material that is explained better elsewhere on the internet. Jeremy and Rachel even encourage us to blog to "ourselves six months ago". I will try to avoid that in general and only talk about things that I could not find elsewhere. One thing that springs to mind is a concise reference for the hierarchy of the data structures in fastai. Another would be a concise hierarchical reference for the all the material.

I will try and do some of this while I look at part two of the course, which is what I will do in the first week of lockdown...
